This lesson on RLHF introduced
a lot of new terms and concepts.
My colleague Chris has put
together an exciting lab
that implements what you
explored in these videos.
So to get your hands dirty with RLHF,
I'll hand it over to Chris to walk
you through this week's notebook.
>> Hey, thanks, Ancha, and
now it's time for Lab 3.
All right, welcome back, everyone,
we are going to talk about Lab 3.
Lab 3 was one of my favorite to work on.
This is where we get hands on
with reinforcement learning and
human feedback, or RLHF.
The purpose of this lab is to lower
the toxicity of our instruction
fine-tuned model from Lab 2,
that was the output of Lab 2.
That'll be the input to Lab 3 here.
And we will lower the toxicity
using a hate speech reward
model where we want to optimize for
not hate.
We'll be using PPO that you learned about
in the lesson, and we will wrap everything
up with quantitative and then qualitative
comparison of our detoxification process.
Okay, let's install our Python libraries.
Here we see that we're using PyTorch.
We're also using the same transformers
that we used in the previous labs,
of course, data sets to get
access to our public data set,
evaluate so
that we could run the rouge_score.
Peft is the parameter
efficient fine-tuning library.
And here's a new library called trl.
And this is what's going
to give us access to PPO.
And a similar type of trainer and
then training arguments,
there's going to be PPOTrainer and
then training arguments following
the hugging face convention of trainer and
training arguments.
Let's do a bunch of our imports up here.
Familiar classes, the AutoModelForSeq2Seq.
Note that there's a new one here,
which is AutoModelForSeq1Classification.
This is what we're going to use to
load our Facebook binary classifier,
seq1 classifier.
Which when we give it a string of text or
a sequence of text,
it'll tell us whether or
not that text contains hate speech or not,
with a particular distribution
across not hate or hate.
And of course, in this lab,
we'll be optimizing for not hate.
Here we see our Peft and
our LoraConfig, which we saw in Lab 2.
Here we see the specific PPOTrainer.
There's also this other class,
AutoModelForSeqtoSeq language
model with a value head.
This is what's required when we do the PPO
training, which we'll see in a bit.
Also, this LengthSampler.
This will give us the ability to filter or
actually sample from our text various
lengths, so we don't actually have
to pull in the entire sequence,
we could pull in just different samples.
And this comes in handy when we're trying
to either sample from our full data set,
even though it's beyond
the 512 context window.
We may want to sample up to 512.
In some cases,
you would actually just throw away
samples that are larger than 512.
With LengthSampler for example,
we can just sample the first 512 or
take samples within the sequence,
maybe not starting from the beginning, but
maybe in the middle or towards the end.
And so LengthSampler is kind of nice.
Here we see PyTorch, the evaluate.
If you haven't seen this before tqdm,
this is
where typically when you see progress
bars showing up in Jupyter Notebooks or
on your command line,
they come from this tqdm library.
As before,
we're going to load our data set and
then eventually our model here in a sec,
we have this build data
set Python function that we've
defined that can do the length
sampling using that LengthSampler
that was mentioned up above,
can also convert our text into those
vectors, also called tokenizing.
So here's where we start to see a little
bit more complexity in our code.
The first couple of labs
we stayed pretty simple.
Lab 3, we start to do a little
bit more Pythonic type stuff.
We have nested functions here to tokenize.
We're starting to combine things
into single functions, and
we're going to just say
build the data set here.
We're going to give it the model name.
We need the model name to know which
tokenizer to use, because again,
these models each have
their own tokenizer.
If you try to mix and match tokenizers
between different model types,
that's not good, and
you'll see some pretty bad results.
One other feature of this build
data set function is that we're
going to wrap our data set
into this instruction prompt.
So this is something that we did
in the first and second lab.
So we're kind of combining it all
into one single function here.
Now this is the model that we
trained in the second lab.
So I'm pulling it from cloud storage here.
We pull it down and
it should be in a folder here called
peft-dialog-summary-checkpoint, let's
crack it open just to see.
Here's the adapter_model.bin.
Again, that's the thing,
that's only 14 megabyte.
And here's our handy print number of
trainable model parameters function that
we'll use from time to time to get
fancy and see when we're using peft.
Throughout this entire lab,
we will be using peft.
So for the most part,
we'll be just training and
fine-tuning a very small
percentage of our model size.
So here once again, 1.4%.
Now here's where we have to use this
variant of the AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM,
which is with ValueHead.
So this is related to how PPO
actually performs its training.
And here, by the way, just to be clear,
we do say is_trainable equals True.
And that's on purpose because we
are actually putting the model into
fine-tuning model.
And then later on when we
go to make predictions and
to generate summaries,
we will set that to false.
So if you notice this number is a little
bit higher than it was in lab 2.
And it's higher by exactly 769 parameters.
And so
let me explain what's happening there.
768 of those parameters
are from the ValueHead.
Actually, all 769 come from the ValueHead.
It's 768, which is the dimension
of the ValueHead plus our bias.
And bias is very important,
by the way, because it's always there,
people just tend to not include
it in their casual conversations.
Now, I skipped over this
create reference model.
This actually comes from TRL.
We had imported this up above.
And what this is doing is,
as you learned about in the lesson,
when we do RLHF, you can specify
a base model that's used with KL
divergence to make sure that while
the reward function is being optimized,
right, while we are optimizing
to maximize the reward,
which in this case is not hate speech.
We don't want to just
wildly hack that reward and
just generate things that are not hate,
but that are not relevant to the original.
So said differently, when we go to train,
we're going to pass in two models,
what's called a reference model,
which is a model that is not going to be
fine-tuned at all, not even with peft.
It's just the original
instruction fine-tuned model
that was the output of Lab 2,
that's now the input for Lab 3.
And then KL divergence is used to
compare what would the original model
have generated versus what would
the current PPO model have generated, and
then keeps things sort
of in line that way and
then minimizes the model's ability
to perform the reward hacking.
So we'll see it here in a bit.
Here's where we're actually going to load,
what I'm calling the toxicity model.
Again, this comes from Facebook.
It was designed to detect hate speech,
it's based on Bert.
Facebook has a variant
of Bert called Roberta.
So this model is on the order of millions
of parameters, not in the billions and
billions like the large language
models that we have today.
Now that that model is loaded, so again,
here's where we use the auto model for
sequence classification.
So this is a classifier.
In this case, there's only two labels and
that's what is going to make this a binary
classifier, it's not hate or it's hate.
And we'll see that in action here.
Here is a sample, nontoxic text.
I want to kiss you,
pretty friendly piece of text here.
And we see different ways that this
model can actually generate output for
this text,
can actually classify this text.
Just know that the first spot,
the most important thing is the first
slot that this model can generate.
The first class is not hate, and
that becomes very important.
Hate is in the second position,
right or 0 index, it's the first index.
So 0 index is not hate,
first index, the 1 index is hate.
And we see that not hate is very high.
So these are the logits, right?
We can also, of course,
perform a soft max on those logits and
we see that the probability of
this text being not toxic or
not hate, is essentially 100%.
The probability that this model is or
that this text is hate is very close to 0.
In our PPO training,
we will actually use the logit, and
it's very important to
get the index right.
And I say this because if you
accidentally optimize for
the wrong index, you can actually
generate text that's more toxic,
which is not what we're
trying to do here today.
And one thing that I did to actually
make this more explicit is I call out
the not hate index equals 0.
And the reason why this is confusing is
in a lot of cases, the sort of positive
class is in the second position, and
the negative class is in the 0th.
And so if you go and copy somebody else's
code or you find an example online, or
you have a friend help you, you might
accidentally mess up which index.
Here is an example of toxic text,
and now keep in mind,
I did have to use a bad word
here to actually trigger this.
And so let's run it there.
And so here we see 97, almost 97 and
a half percent probability that
this is toxic or hate speech.
Now, hate speech is extreme.
And so I do caution,
if you do try to play with this example,
that oftentimes you do have to be
extreme to trigger the hate flag.
So the good news, is we're not optimizing
for the hate flag, we're optimizing for
the not hate flag, so let's keep going.
One thing we haven't
shown much in these labs
is what's called a hugging
face inference pipeline.
And so this gets imported up above,
this was imported.
And here we're creating what's
called a sentiment pipeline.
And the real value of these
hugging face pipelines,
this is from the transformers library.
The real value is I can just say this
is a sentiment analysis problem,
basically 0, or sorry, two classes.
And I give it the name of my model and
then I can use this.
And I don't have to call all those
low level model.generate and
do the tokenizer and all that stuff,
this will actually do it all for us.
So again, we did not use these
in the first and second lab,
we are using it here just to reduce
the complexity of this lab and
really, really focus on the RL part of it.
But I do want to show you that there
are these things called the inference
pipelines, and they're very, very handy.
You can mix and
match as we're doing in this lab here.
Sometimes you can use them,
sometimes you don't have to use them.
Here we are setting up
a toxicity evaluation mechanism.
And we're going to reuse
the Evaluate Python library which
does have a first class
knowledge of toxicity.
And so of course, when we set this up,
we have to give it the toxicity model,
which in this case we're using
Facebook RoBERTa hate speech model.
The other interesting thing is that
we have to pass in the toxic label.
In this case, the toxic label is hate.
And we will use this evaluator
later on when we compare before and
then after our PPO, our reinforcement
learning with human feedback.
Here we see for the nontoxic text which we
specified up above, I want to kiss you and
the toxic text, we see that these scores
are consistent with what we are expecting.
Here is a convenience function where we
pass in the model, pass in the data set.
We can even tell it the number
of samples to try and
to calculate a mean toxicity
score along with the standard
deviation for
a whole bunch of summaries that
are generated tell us what
is the mean toxicity score.
And so the goal is to reduce the mean
toxicity score after we do PPO.
And so here we see what the mean and
standard deviation toxicity is before
we perform our detoxification to reduce
the toxicity of our generated summaries.
Here we're going to
initialize the PPOTrainer.
We have a PPOConfig as well too.
These are really just sort
of standard learning rates.
We are doing a small
number of the PPO epics.
Again, just to keep the time for
this lab down to a reasonable number.
Batch_size, here, 16, not too bad.
And you can actually play with some of
these values when you get into the lab.
Here we see PPOTrainer
takes the reference model.
So this we used up above when we
called Create_Reference model.
And that's essentially the original
model that was the output of the Lab 2.
And that's what's going to be used for
KL divergence during PPO training.
Now we actually fine-tune
the model using RLHF.
This is the exciting part.
And so here we see kl divergence,
which is something we want to minimize,
just like you learned in the lesson.
We don't want the KL divergence to go
too high, that means that the model is
starting to hack the reward function,
and that's not good.
It's just generating things
to make the reward happy,
it's not generating things that
are actually similar to the original text
that's being passed in for summarization.
And we're trying to
maximize the mean return.
These are some of the PPO reinforcement
learning concepts that you learned about
in the slides.
Maximize the advantage, and
this will run for about 20 minutes or so.
So go grab a cup of coffee.
And what's happening here is,
we're grabbing each of
the samples that we provided
from our dialog data set and
we're summarizing the text.
We're using the sentiment pipeline that we
created up above that's going to classify
both what's called the query, which is
the prompt and the response together.
So we're going to zip those two
together using the python zip.
And we have query response we're
going to pass that pair in to
the sentiment pipeline and
ask the pipeline, is this toxic?
Is this hate or is this not hate?
That then gives us the logits for
those query response pairs.
We're going to pull out
the not_hate score and
we're going to pass all of
this in to the PPOTrainer.
So we're going to give it prompt,
we're going to give it the response or
the summary and
we're going to give it the score.
All of those three go in as lists,
as batches into our PPOTrainer.
That's then going to perform a PPO
step to minimize the loss function
as you saw in the slides.
And this is where the actual
gradients are being updated.
And now keep in mind
that we're using peft.
And so we're not actually modifying
the base LOM parameters peft,
we are just modifying
the 1.4% lorapeftadapters
that are being used during
this fine-tuning process.
And we will run this for a bit.
We see KL divergence is relatively stable,
around 27, 28, 29.
It goes up, it comes down,
that's PPO trying to keep things balanced.
And once this is done,
we will compare the model quantitatively
as well as qualitatively.
After about ten iterations, we can compare
the model that has been detoxified,
or has reduced toxicity as
compared to the original model.
And here we could do this qualitatively
by comparing the previous
response to the response after.
So here we see that the reward has
actually gone up in a number of
cases of these examples.
So query is the original text
that we want to summarize,
the original conversation wrapped
in that instruction prompt and
we see the response before,
we see the response after.
And we see that the model has
determined that the reward model,
the hate speech model has determined that
the reward actually is more
positive in a number of these.
If you were to train longer and
had more time,
you would see this a relatively
significant difference.
The other thing to mention is,
because the reward model is so extreme,
that really to get the most benefit,
you would start with a relatively
toxic data set, which this is not
a relatively toxic data set, and
then you would see a much
larger difference.
But here we see directionally
by doing PPO and
using the reward function that
we're using the reward model for
the hate speech,
that we can actually lower the overall
toxicity of our model
responses by a decent amount.